{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww26660\viewh17680\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Here's an update on the suspension. Anyone who does not have an active contract at the moment, and at the same time no great bid statistics (see my stats, two of those three lines should be half over in green, the most important is the last, how often you are hired) must pay Upwork Plus Plan.\
\
Literally, even those who have made tens of thousands of dollars in the past can be banned if they do not currently have an active contract. However, they will have a better chance of removing the suspension later if they are persuaded to activate and pay for the Plus account.\
\
What is an active contract? An active contract is an open contract that generates revenue within a month. So it's not enough to just be open and let's say you are chatting with your employer, you need to earn the money at least once within 30 days.\
\
Be very careful when giving contacts to clients. Even the slightest suspicion that you will agree off-platform will now be enough to ban you without the right to complain.\
\
Given what is happening and unless we get some confirmation that this massive suspension is a mistake, the criteria are obviously tightened. I will follow up and try to see if there is any new parameter that they have introduced that affects the suspension.\
\
Until then, please do what I advised you to do immediately.\
\
Also, new accounts, must immediately start very strong and get hired very soon in order to avoid the suspension. So you only have a month to get a job. The best thing to make profile safer is to buy a Plus Plan after the first 1-2 weeks. Without Plus Plan they will surely suspend you.\
\
The communication with a client is constantly emerging as a problem. That is why I insist on that restrictiveness and that everything is kept on the upwork platform, so you can be safe. Of course, you can communicate through other channels, it was never forbidden (that is what Upwork says), but the problem is that they generally do not admit absolutely anything that happens outside of Upwork messages, if there are some problems and if they suspect that off-platform payments are there - it is the end! There isn't any way the account can be restored.\
\
And it all depends on your communication skills and what they see. If you are making an appointment on (mail, skype, etc.), after that conversation, transfer the conversation to Upwork as well, to confirm what you have agreed.\
If you are asked for mail or Skype, say I don't mind, but I prefer Upwork messages because it's secure for both parties. We can chat on Skype, but I would like to confirm the deal in Upwork messages and keep all payments here. Or something similar.\
And you should be fenced off enough and you are clean about Upwork and at the same time, you can notice the behavior of the potential client whether it is problematic/fraudulent or not.\
\
As for the statistics part - it is really important as well. Two years ago there was a thread on a forum where a freelancer who had previously earned over $ 50,000 on Upwork was banned for failure and inconsistency.\
The man probably got a full-time job outside Upwork, then returned to Upwork after a year or two and started bidding. He did not get a job within a month and is banned, because when so much time passes and all the statistics are "cleared", they will ban you if you are not successful.\
\
If you've been in private for a while and then you got active again, and get a job - you won't be banned.\
\
And of course, not everyone will be the same, those who bid on\
20+ applications per job on average and those who aren't get hired very often will be suspended much faster because there are many profiles that can do that same job. And then Upwork quickly suspends that kind of freelancers, as he thinks he has quite enough freelancers in those categories.\
\
To sum up:\
* Take good care about your statistic on upwork, make sure you are better than average on all 3 lines! Make sure you do not bid on many projects that you probably won't get hired. Aim for the jobs that you think you have a good chance of winning.\
* Give your best to keep all conversation on upwork platform, it is really important. If your client is insisting on other communication channels, please make sure you send them some of those messages, that I have written in the text above.\
* Buy Plus Plan on upwork, whether you are new (it will boost you and give you more time in the beginning) or you have a well-built and well-earned account (small cost for keeping the account safe)! It will keep you safer for sure and it will give you a certain advantage over other freelancers. Now, when there are no free connects, a lot of people aren't buying Plus Plan anymore because they do not see the advantage in it. That can work in our favor because they will always suspend regular freelancers first.\
\
Here are some regulations that you should be following when using upwork account.\
\
\
* Please do not give skype, e-mail, or any other contact to the client (never, if possible) or you must wait at least until your account gets verified and strong (5+ jobs done and $1k earned).\
Recently, on one of my accounts, skype was shared with the client for some project. Account has about 20 jobs finished and $5k+ earned and Upwork asked for screenshots with skype conversation with a client. Seems like new profiles are suspended, and strong profiles are asked for screenshots so they can make sure there is no payment outside of upwork. It took a lot of effort and about 3 weeks for the account to get reactivated! Again there is no reason to give contacts to clients, but if you do, wait until you build up your profile and if you chat with client on some other platform, make sure you still respect upwork terms because they might ask to see screenshots (do not delete messages with client when messaging outside of upwork).\
From my experience, most of the account suspension occurs because of some issue on a project (client didn't close contract, or wants his payment refunded, etc.) in cases where the contact information was shared with the client (e-mail, skype...). In that case, Upwork might suspect, that you have been paid outside of Upwork and will suspend the account. Sharing contact information when you are interviewed or hired is accepted according to Upwork, but, when there is some issue with the project, they do not care about their terms.\
I suggest you try not to give any contact information to the client. If the client is persistent or if you must share contact because of the nature of the project, then please share contact only after you are hired. If you share contact during the interview and the client does not hire you, it is getting suspicious that you could finish a project and get paid outside of Upwork. Also, when you shared some contact with the client and you discussed it with him on other platforms, always make sure that you send all the files through upwork. It is best to submit all work and contract negotiations through the Upwork platform and Messages.\
\
* Do not change profile information.\
Whenever I open a new profile, I keep in mind my friends' age, years for education, work history, English speaking skills, etc. If you change the information that I've put, then the information won't coincide (concur). For example, I write:\
Education - faculty 2012 - 2016\
Work history - developer at xxx company 2016-2019,\
Overview - 3 years of experience\
And then when overview text is changed to 7 years of experience, work history and overview do not coincide.\
\
After every video call, the guy from the upwork support, who was interviewing, takes a look over the account. He can check out the profile and all messages with clients.\
\
* Try to avoid contacting upwork support!\
This is very important. Whenever you contact the support team and send a ticket, someone will go through your profile and messages. Also, I understand that sometimes you must contact support, but when you do, again make sure your profile is strong and well build and make sure you don't have any reason on your profile that can lead to suspension.\
\
* E-mail address must match PayPal address!\
This is something you already know, but if these do not match, it will get an account suspended immediately.\
\
* Do not apply for the jobs where clients are located in: Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Slovenia, Croatia. They all speak the same language - Serbian with some small distinctions and if they start to chat with you on Serbian and you chat on English it will be very suspicious.}